something about it always makes me smile. when the metrocard machine tells me “PLEASE REMOVE YOUR CARD” in all caps, after calmly asking me to “Please Put Your Card in the Machine” in proper case. like there’s a sudden burst of urgency. i have to take the card out!!!! or else.

i feel like that sometimes. i’m adding 50.00 to my card, because typing in an exact multiple of 2.90 feels like too much work, for some reason. as i do so, i miss the 3 train, which is ok, because i like taking the 2 better anyways. the seats are shinier, the air somehow more fresh. i’m listening to florence in the machine for the first time in a while. nostalgic for a time when i was feeling nostalgic. she’s belting: *now it’s summer in new york.* which feels ironic, because i’m busting out my turtleneck for the first time since april. but music can transport you; i am fluttering.

i tried to wear something fruit related when i left the house, for the fruit party tonight. but then i realized that despite living with painted strawberries on my wall for nearly a year, i don’t own any clothing or jewelry directly fruit related. and now i’m thinking back to when i wore strawberry earrings (literal strawberries) in college. i wanted them to drip onto my white shirt, wanted my day to be punctured by the saccharine aroma of an impaled strawberry making my ear lobes sag. just because i could.

has that spirit of experimentation left me? i’m beginning to worry that my life is becoming too serious. too driven by the sudden burst of urgency. too metrocard machine, not enough *summer in new york.* the experiment didn’t work so well. i imagined ending my day with splotches of red running down my shirt, but instead i was mostly just uncomfortable and sticky. now florence’s turn is over, and it’s mitski’s turn to belt. i take my metrocard from the machine and ask for a receipt.