
for valentine&rsquo;s day we hosted a craft night &mdash; made valentines for loved ones. it didn&rsquo;t turn out exactly as expected; most folks invited texted night-of that they weren&rsquo;t coming, and i only really made one valentine. but it was a lovely night, regardless, full of art making and task completing and deep conversation with loved ones. i baked some chocolate chip cookies that had just the right amount of salt and cayenne. i wrote a letter to a dear friend who is many miles away. i sat on the couch and had a meandering and generous conversation.


i&rsquo;m making a list of things that provoke a liveliness in me:


- games
- nostalgia
- throwing a party
- spirited intellectual conversation
- good bits
- a beautiful outfit that flows and makes a funny noise while i walk
- the moment when caffeine really hits
- a strange occurrence from an insect
- being told something special about me
- playing soccer
- the air on my face while skating
- making a new dish for dinner that surprises me
- finding a tiny beautiful object on the side of the street
- coming across a sweet gum tree with branches sagging under the weight of its seed pods about to fall
- the sunlight in the morning in my apartment, watching it go across the room
- soreness
- making a beautiful drawing that i love
- when it gets to be dusk and i start to turn on all my lamps like a nighttime ritual
- following the sun around my room like a cat
- a very soft cat
- a big shirt
- a big skirt
- long grass meadows
- sweeping up dust with my finger
- a blast of cold winter air when you've been inside for a while
- a crunchy grilled cheese
- a weekend with no plans
- a weekend full of exciting plans
- biking down a hill surrounded by trees
- when doing an activity in a group setting and a silence settles over the group because everyone is so focused

it&rsquo;s my personal <a href="https://www.are.na/alex-singh/a-catalogue-of-simple-pleasures">catalogue of simple pleasures</a> &mdash; a reminder of that which encourages liveliness. my life has been full of a deep welling happiness, lately. a pervading sense of tenderness and satisfaction. in acknowledgement that this, too, is a cyclical feeling, i&rsquo;m taking the moment to be appreciative of all of that which buoys me in the endless ocean of living.


kyle ☻


