
hi howdy hello. i&rsquo;m writing currently from jetblue flight 1573 en route to los angeles, where i&rsquo;m staying for the next couple weeks, after a stint in new york, after a stint in washington dc, after a stint in colorado, which comes before a stint in new york, prior to a stint in sao paulo. actually, at this current moment (this stint of my life, if you will), i think that stinting is all i&rsquo;m doing. it takes a particular state of mind to stint (state to stint). i have to prepare myself to sleep in all sorts of various configurations, to be nearly constantly socializing, and to be comfortable wearing the same outfit basically every other day. that last one is particularly hard for me. but along the way i get to share experiences with so many of my closest friends, in beautiful places. it&rsquo;s like a tour of the lives of my loved ones. something about me? i love a lil stint. (special shoutout to raya, jonathan, tatijana, mom, dad, louison, neiman, amy, and sahal for all taking me in &hellip; &lt;3)


the big life update that has resulted in said stinting is that i&rsquo;ve moved out of my apartment and into a storage unit in brooklyn. for march and april, at least, i&rsquo;ll be in and out of new york, staying with friends and in brief sublets as i decide on my next steps. i&rsquo;m definitely staying in new york long term. not only because my job requires it, but because these brief weeks away have made me reckon with the fact that i can&rsquo;t really see myself long-term anywhere else.


it&rsquo;s a good time to be mobile. to jump between climates and coasts and feel the world changing around me. i feel the cadence of my contemplation changing, i notice different parts of my life. i eat a lot more snacks. it&rsquo;s a whirlwind, and i wouldn&rsquo;t want it any other way. some observations from my travels:


<ul>
	<li>it&rsquo;s so intimate to see someone&rsquo;s nightly routine. how they wash their face and if they do skincare and how they wind down. i love seeing my friends in these moments.</li>
	<li>cities are&nbsp;<em>ugly.</em>&nbsp;by which i mean, most new housing stock is hideous. it&rsquo;s gray and beige (greige) with tasteless pops of color and clearly not built to last. this would be fine (i guess&hellip;) if we weren&rsquo;t in a housing crisis where we&rsquo;re all paying too much just to live!</li>
	<li>cities are&nbsp;<em>gorgeous.</em>&nbsp;so much variety! so much excess! every day an onslaught of sensation. i&rsquo;m constantly amazed; may the urban always delight.</li>
	<li>ugly housing makes me appreciate places that don&rsquo;t bow down to clean aesthetics. namely, the weed store. i&rsquo;m fascinated by how committed weed stores (in NYC) are to their particular mix of maximalism, cartoon aesthetics, and colorful LED lighting, and irreverent branding. we could all learn a thing or two from the weed store</li>
	<li>tidy whiplash: when you go from an extremely clean and tidy space to an entropic one. ex: me spending a week in my parents&rsquo; immaculately clean home followed by a week in Louison&rsquo;s chaotic studio in DC.</li>
	<li>few things are as simultaneously freeing and restricting as putting everything you own in a storage unit and living out of a small backpack for five weeks. i&rsquo;ve felt compelled to live this way the rest of my life and i&rsquo;ve felt compelled to move into the next available apartment just to have my stuff back where i can see it. all my life is expanding and contracting my footprint. i&rsquo;m just in my compact phase.</li>
	<li>you can imbue your possessions with meaning just by committing to them. i&rsquo;ve been wearing the same black sweater nearly every day for the past five weeks. it&rsquo;s about six years old, but until now it never felt particularly special to me. now i know it so well, even as some parts begin to fray. (fraying is loving)</li>
</ul>

i have many more (memory palace is giving hoarder these days&hellip;) but we&rsquo;ll have to chat if you want to learn more! say hi!


