an earthquake strikes new york city. buildings shake, crumbled mortar dislodges from the bricks on my bedroom wall. now i’m vacuuming, the noise a dull roar, somehow comforting. i think i spend all my time with noise canceling headphones in. somehow i believe that i would be able to hear the earthquake coming, if i just listened.

one of the reasons that earthquakes (and other natural disasters) are so compelling is that they happen to all of us. a reminder of our dynamic, destructive world. to confirm it really happened, i look out the window after the earthquake and see my neighbors also looking around, from buildings across the street. together, we acknowledge that something unprecedented has happened, and it has interrupted our zoom meetings and construction projects and yoga classes and all.

we live in unprecedented times. in a work call, someone describes their work building data infrastructure as an effort to bring us back to a shared reality. at a dinner party we talk about how there’s less shared cultural moments because of new media. do we [live on different planets](https://walkerart.org/magazine/bruno-latour-we-dont-seem-to-live-on-the-same-planet-a-fictional-planetarium/)? do i care to be on the same one?

i’ve been going planetary. for work, i write a memo about the future of planetary data. i apply for a working group on planetary sapience. i tell my coworker who created [planetary computer](https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/) about a new method for planetary medium range weather forecasting. i’m thinking about the earthquakes that connect us, and the social media websites that disconnect us. but connection was never so simple, as i know when i turn on my noise cancellation to drown out a noisy subway car.

i love celestial moments because they remind us of our planetary inhabitance. the same full moon that i celebrate in my brooklyn apartment shines down on the lithium mines in chile, the starving people of gaza, the clothing factories in bangladesh. my art is motivated by a planetary experience, by finding new ways to celebrate it and grieve it and connect to it. and so my professional and personal and all the fusings of the two return to the same image. it’s me, in my bedroom, spinning around and around the globe i received for my eighth birthday.

isabelle stengers writes about a practice of “naming gaia,” in which one pays close attention to the changes to the planet as a deliberate and subversive act to resist the enclosure of knowledge into scientific or otherwise inaccessible fields. natural disasters, then, are ways of naming gaia, in all her destructive power. the disaster, previously domain of climate models and weather forecasts, bursts into collective consciousness.

but my climate models won’t predict earthquakes. naming gaia is naming the unpredictability of climatic change. the unexpected differences that characterize our unprecedented times. our planet betrays itself. or, we betray our planet. or, we betray ourselves and turn our planet into culprit. 

for some reason i’m thinking of this ellen bass quote: “Like sage gives its scent when you crush it. Like stone is hard. They were happy and I could touch it.” i want to touch the earthquake, but all i can feel is the dust slipping between my fingertips. 

i’m writing as the sun sets. the sky feels burst open, clouds shimmering with sunset hues, a brightness i can only describe as the first sight of blue after a week of rain. it’s stunningly, earth-shatteringly vibrant. it’s also still. sometimes, i think, we need to be shaken from our foundations. i love airplane turbulence, a bumpy bus ride. life jostles me around and i let go of my hold on it, my claim to stability. the earth shakes, my windows wobble, and i sit here, naming it all.