
there&rsquo;s this karima walker song that starts with &ldquo;the earth is shaking, she&rsquo;s taking a breath&rdquo; and it almost made me cry because it played right as i was leaving trader joe&rsquo;s with some flowers (alstroemeria) wrapped in plastic and i know this plastic is going to live so much longer than me and the earth is shaking and i am leaving all these traces of myself and my consumption everywhere i go. the flowers were five dollars and they make me happy on my new dining table and i&rsquo;m feeling a bit exhausted from constantly weighing the costs and benefits of the way i live my life. i act as though i don&rsquo;t have any other options (i do), or that i don&rsquo;t have the funds to avoid using plastic (i do) or that i don&rsquo;t have a responsibility to act sustainably in every way i can (i do).


i act this way because it&rsquo;s overwhelming. i spent an hour and a half the other day researching headphones. i didn&rsquo;t buy any; i went on a frustration walk. i feel like there are these pieces of my life that keep piling up. texts that need replies, bills that need paid, everything is a need. all these needs and i&rsquo;m spending all my time thinking about the plastic around the flowers. beauty always entangled in extraction. no life without the guilt of living.


some things i&rsquo;ve felt guilty about this week: my height, my whiteness, my gender, my class, my flower purchase, my consumption of eight white chocolate cranberry oatmeal cookies, my having the nicest room in the apartment, my flexibility in my job, my lack of productivity, my role in the nonprofit-industrial complex, my taking a seat in the subway when it becomes available, my lack of allergies. only a sample. i lay in the grass in fort greene park, looking up at falling petals from the elder trees surrounding me, and i feel guilty that my eyes aren&rsquo;t puffy, my sinuses doing just fine in this pollen-infested landscape.


in moments of clarity i recognize that my guilt is a matter of framing. i could just as easily be grateful, let myself enjoy my surroundings without forgetting why i can have them. i usually think like this, but sometimes i spend days waffling over whether to apply for a new credit card and i just can&rsquo;t stop this burgeoning urge to expunge myself of all the guilt. get away. dedicate myself wholeheartedly to a cause or concern or art-making. stop trying to do it all.


i&rsquo;m angry about commodities. i love my little precious things (almost all found/gifted/secondhand). i love making sculptures out of my life, but i&rsquo;m angry about the twin burden/relief of buying something new. i feel a need (all these needs) to spend hours researching almost everything i buy new, because i&rsquo;m afraid of the feeling of being ripped off. scammed. to be american is to be suspicious. i walk down the street and guess how much my neighbors spent on their outfits.


recently, i&rsquo;ve been particularly preoccupied with this tension that i feel. i want to know my individual impact: where my trash has gone, where my data is stored, who i&rsquo;ve influenced and what they think of me. but i also despise orienting one&rsquo;s life around data or measurement. i&rsquo;ve turned off the pedometer in my phone. i haven&rsquo;t weighed myself in six years. i feel like measuring myself, physically, is like being told what to do. my recurring problem with authority means i can&rsquo;t stand this situation, too.


these things are connected, but i can&rsquo;t quite put my finger on how. the datafied life, the commodified life, the guilty life. all of it responses, probably, to the suspended agency of living in late stage capitalism or the diffuse grief of climate change. i tell myself that i feel guilty because of neoliberalism; i&rsquo;m internalizing our collective doom. but guilt is still a centering of the self. where&rsquo;s the collective future? i think i&rsquo;m losing some of my faith in speculation &mdash; life doesn&rsquo;t get structurally better, we just find new ways to cope.


i&rsquo;ve always been suspicious of routine, which has frequently felt rote, like a projection of my inability to enjoy spontaneity. i don&rsquo;t want routines, i want to be surprised and amazed and have every day feel special and unique. but routines keep me from thinking about my guilt, i think. they keep me grounded like the flowers, not floating like the plastic. i&rsquo;m thinking about outlets &mdash; how we rationalize impulses as a reaction to feelings or experiences. depression begets death metal. routines are outlets, too.


despite what these words might seem to convey, i&rsquo;m really happy. i haven&rsquo;t actually been much more content in my life. melisa and i talked yesterday about the experience of coming into yourself, particularly post-2020. it was a rift and i&rsquo;m different now and i feel so much more attuned to who i am and what i want and how to achieve that. i feel in community. i feel agency. i create, often, in many different forms, out of an internal excitement rather than an obligation or external ambition.


there&rsquo;s a sasami song i keep returning to where she mostly repeats the same lines: &ldquo;thought i was the only one // turned out i was everyone&rdquo; and every time i hear it i&rsquo;m just.. blown away.&nbsp;<em><strong><strong><strong><strong><strong><strong><strong><strong><strong><strong><strong><strong>turns out i&rsquo;m everyone.</strong></strong></strong></strong></strong></strong></strong></strong></strong></strong></strong></strong></em>&nbsp;i treat this song like a talisman, something to accompany me, to carry with me as a reminder: i am everyone. it&rsquo;s good for dislodging myself from self-centering guilt.


i&rsquo;ve started a practice recently of what i&rsquo;m calling &ldquo;walking poems&rdquo;. i go for a walk or ride in the subway and write short phrases for the thoughts that come to mind. it&rsquo;s thinking sequentially; it&rsquo;s organizing my cluttered mind; it&rsquo;s not at all lyrical or particularly pleasant to read. i&rsquo;ve copied one of them below, that inspired some of this writing. i didn&rsquo;t get to all of the thoughts &mdash; there&rsquo;s a lot to say and my fingers can only type so fast before i end up distracted by the next thing. i&rsquo;ve found it a really generative practice, in that it helps me identify latent themes / connections across the ideas that i can&rsquo;t get out of my brain.


one of my subgoals in life is to make sense of what it means to live. to keep experimenting with how to understand it all and my place amongst it. i&rsquo;ll often feel guilty, too, about my tendency to engage with a frequent pace and variety of media &mdash; comments about how i &ldquo;do so much&rdquo; induce a feeling of being judged for having the capacity to take it in. but i don&rsquo;t know how to make clear that i&rsquo;m just trying to figure it out, same as all of us. turns out we&rsquo;re all everyone. anyways, the poem:


waking the dreaming body

flowers plastic trader joes

(i do)

pollen grateful

suspicious of routine

suspicious of identity, taxonomy

cuteness // anger

directionality feverish, enfevered

what is missing here?

earnest industrial complex

competition running thru my veins

reorientation (on a curve)

dreaming alcoholic dysfunction

turned out i was everyone

living is sloppy


kyle ☻


