
new york city is not burning. the sun is red, the sky smells of smoke, but the flames aren&rsquo;t here. we are inhaling someone else&rsquo;s end of the world.


i feel like i&rsquo;m dancing on the carcass of the future. franny choi: &ldquo;the sky, shocked with dying.&rdquo; i&rsquo;m being dramatic. my privilege means that i am free to aestheticize climate crisis (i feel a need to clarify this). but still there&rsquo;s a grief here, a mourning. city of distractions, city that never sleeps, overflowing with wealth, unable to escape the heavy descent of orange haze blowing in from the north. coming for all of us. michelle murphy: &ldquo;political kinship&hellip; comes out of the recognition of connected, though profoundly uneven and often complicit, imbrications in the systems that distribute violence.&rdquo;


i went to dumbo this morning to work in a cafe and was struck by how this part of the city is constructed. it&rsquo;s tech, now, or at least feels like it. the urban designed to distract. the burning is abstracted, the sources obscured. i sit at my table and pore over global mean temperature datasets. how do you convey this information that makes the stakes clear? new york city isn&rsquo;t burning, but the smoke i smell stirs some frantic spiraling in me. i squint to make out the skyline past the brooklyn bridge.


sometimes i struggle to describe my feelings in words; my mind tends to work in movements, in actions, kinetically. this is how i would describe how i feel today, stepping out into the orange hued streets: eyes moving back and forth, seeking something that isn&rsquo;t to be found.


i&rsquo;m thinking about eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) therapy. by some trick of the architecture of the brain, moving your eyes back and forth helps you retain a practical mind while recalling trauma. hack your brain. in the future, maybe these furtive glances will become a part of my routine, as i leave my home to live in the world. this feeling is practice. preparing the carcass of the future. sheila heti: &ldquo;it&rsquo;s true that the world was failing at its one task&mdash;of remaining a world&rdquo;


i don&rsquo;t know why i feel this urge to be feral. something in the sky sets it off in me. i want to go for a hike and swim in a waterfall and i guess what i really want is to be cleansed. i&rsquo;m imagining myself dusted in ash, drywall from the holes i drilled in the wall this morning while putting up curtain rods. i think we&rsquo;re always collecting dust, of some sort. pieces of the world we live in float down and stick to us, whether we notice or not, pooling and polluting. sometimes the presence of this dust become abundantly clear, like when my roommate texts me not to go outside because of the air quality index. i go outside anyways; i want to feel this failing on my skin. kathryn savage: &ldquo;could there be something humbling and revolutionary in understanding myself as a site of contamination?&rdquo;


i&rsquo;m interested in the experience of being shocked into awareness of your role in or the presence of massively complex systems. the ever given ship stopping global supply chains from operating. the darvaza gas crater. the salton sea. there are these places and occasions where systemic complexity folds in upon itself, where we&rsquo;re forced to contend with the fact that the apocalypse is already here, just unevenly distributed. it&rsquo;s been a long time since 1492, and the world keeps ending and ending and ending.


and accelerating. wildfire smoke engulfing america&rsquo;s most powerful city demonstrates how the impacts of climate change feel so urgent because they begin to threaten the way of life of nearly everyone, not just those who are disposable in the capitalist regime. these things keep happening, and faster. it makes it feel especially dissonant when the venture capitalist backed climate innovation firm touts our collective progress on meeting our climate goals. climate goals are not asthma attacks, deadly flooding, sea level rise. there&rsquo;s only so much you can take, right? as &ldquo;unprecedented&rdquo; times continue, we either normalize the experience or let the shock of how our systems fail us stick, and watch it pry apart the stories we tell ourselves.


humans are naturally inclined to read meaning into things. we are excellent at pattern recognition. i want the hazy skies of my city to serve as an omen, an instigator, a sign of our collective hubris. i want the smoky air to infiltrate the gleaming towers on wall street and bring the capitalist elite to their knees. i want a narrative. elizabeth rush: &ldquo;i call this new form of climate anxiety endsickness. like motion sickness or sea sickness, endsickness is its own kind of vertigo&mdash;a physical response to living in a world that is moving in unusual ways, toward what i imagine as a kind of event horizon.&ldquo;


these days, i always feel as though the world is moving in unusual ways. what event horizon awaits us? what stories are we telling ourselves now, and what are we going to do with them? i keep on wondering about where this feeling is going to settle. these sidelong glances, seeking a culprit in a system trained in diffusing blame, where will they land? as particles from the smoke of a fire hundreds of miles away settle in my lungs, my grief takes aim. where there is mourning, there is responsibility. it&rsquo;s the latest episode of the anthropocene, and new york city is not burning.



hope you are all staying safe and well ☻&nbsp;

kyle


