
it&rsquo;s monday night and i&rsquo;m laying on the floor of my apartment. i&rsquo;m listening to a playlist i made on march 3, 2018, called &ldquo;feeling sad even tho everything is going right.&rdquo; lately, i&rsquo;ve been wondering whether i&rsquo;m repeating myself, and rediscovering this playlist feels like confirmation. what has changed in five and a half years? i got a degree; moved to new york; visited some new places; grew my hair out.


i&rsquo;m looking back through my photo album to see if i took any pictures on the day i made this playlist. i didn&rsquo;t; i feel both relieved and disappointed. what was i looking for? some sort of validation that i was more pathetic back then, for the memories to come flooding back? no, this isn&rsquo;t that kind of sadness. it&rsquo;s diffuse; it spreads out from my stomach and sprouts in new places. a moss, a weed. every garden needs tending. i wonder if i&rsquo;ve let mine run wild too long. i shrug and roll over to stare at the ceiling.


today in book club we talked about&nbsp;<a href="https://logicmag.io/supa-dupa-skies/from-the-sasha-into-the-zamani-death-as-a-moment-of-radical-continuity/">two</a>&nbsp;<a href="https://logicmag.io/supa-dupa-skies/the-origin-of-clouds/">articles</a>&nbsp;in the latest edition of logic(s), both engaging in ancestral practices, but updated for our cyborg century. this is where the sadness comes from, today, if i&rsquo;m to point anywhere (pointing is a product of knowing; often, i don&rsquo;t know where to point). it&rsquo;s not the pieces themselves, which are articulate and pithy and generous. it&rsquo;s their ancestral subject matter, a type of relation i feel utterly removed from.


thus goes the violence of colonialism. the project of settler colonialism wrests away familial and ancestral relations such that we can be more easily configured as individuals, and thus more easily controlled. these wounds differ in their locations and severity, but they&rsquo;re wounds all the same. and the repair differs too. white people in this country are sorely lacking something similar to the rich reparative tradition of African American culture. we have a lot to learn, and comparatively much less damage to undo. but what do we have? white nationalism, commodity aesthetics, the country club.


ancestral technology surfaces as a common theme in art grouped (most often uncharitably, i should add) under the category of identity art. this artist used ancestral weaving techniques of the women in their community to create beautiful conceptual quilts. that artist updated local glassblowing techniques to create a wry critique of commodity capitalism. the story usually follows a similar path: artist spends time rediscovering their ancestry, learning new skills. artist creates a series of work utilizing said techniques to create pieces involving more modern themes. work is celebrated as a reclamation of culture, bridging the present with a violently dispossessed past.


i believe this kind of art should be treated generously, as more than just a formulaic instantiation of identity politics. and i believe that learning ancestral techniques is a skill that should not only be celebrated more in art, but should be accessible to more than just artists or artisans. we should all be learning these things. i just wish there was more for me to learn &mdash; i don&rsquo;t know where i would look for an ancestral technology to tap into. as a white person trying to distance themselves from the harm and exclusion of whiteness, i feel as though i am constantly moving&nbsp;<em>away</em>&nbsp;from ancestral relations, not towards, as is the case with this form of artmaking.


white people have largely failed to generate life affirming alternatives to the violence of whiteness and its settler relations. as a white person who tends not to feel at home in largely white spaces, i feel like i&rsquo;m constantly navigating the tension between trying to take up less space (on account of my whiteness) and to embrace that which feels most comfortable (transcend my whiteness). this is not a binary; i hold these things at once. i don&rsquo;t feel comfortable in nearly all majority white spaces because the overrepresentation of whiteness in those spaces generally signifies a relation of theft, whether of land or aesthetics or otherwise. but i also don&rsquo;t feel comfortable in spaces where whiteness is not dominant, because i am white, which makes me feel unwelcome or obtrusive or both. the point i&rsquo;m trying to make is that white people generally lack the cultural apparatus(es) necessary for reparative ancestral relations, and this permeates the spaces where we gather. as someone without a&nbsp;strong cultural or religious background, i feel this acutely.


my computer is at three percent battery. my phone at seven. there are these moments where i&rsquo;m suddenly struck by the fact that all my devices are nearing death. that i&rsquo;m almost without them, and what&nbsp;they promise me: friendship, art, inspiration, sex. memory, too. this we talked about in book club, as well, how much our memories are attached to data. i remember my past by looking at my camera roll and&nbsp;my playlists. how else would i know that i was feeling a diffuse sadness on march 3, 2018? how else would i compare it to this moment? another product of networked capitalism is being forcibly made aware of the extensive nets within which we do our thinking; as a cyborg, i&rsquo;m never without the computer i think with. what i mean by this is that the metaphors of computation are so deeply ingrained in my ways of thinking that it feels impossible for me to conceive of a memory untethered to my photo album and spotify account. and, of course, these are products, owned by companies looking to make a profit, using all sorts of unethical labor and environmental practices to do so. they&rsquo;re constantly making decisions that i don&rsquo;t agree with, but i feel forced to go along with them, because that&rsquo;s my memory inside my spotify account, and i&rsquo;m not about to give that up. i&rsquo;m not ready to mourn that loss.


this, then, is another violence of settler colonialism. that we are&nbsp;still&nbsp;tethered to corporations which make decisions that cause harm, in search of profit. plantation logic at work.&nbsp;not only am i disallowed a collectively-facilitated relationship with my ancestors, but i&rsquo;m also disallowed agency over how i access my own memories. my mind is not my own. this, too, gone the route of the colony.


i&rsquo;m updating this playlist for 2023. i&rsquo;m still feeling sad even though everything is going right. i still feel sad in the garden, at the concert hall or the farmers market. i&rsquo;m sad on account of my whiteness, and of my memory palace comprised of thousands of spotify playlists. i know that there is work to be done to counteract this sadness; that i can engage in building up mechanisms for life affirming relations to my ancestors and community, as well as with fellow white people. and i know that there are existing efforts to do so. i&rsquo;m fiercely committed to this struggle, and already engaged deeply in it. but right now i don&rsquo;t want to feel like everything in my life is a project. i want to lay on the floor and let the sadness wash over me, beach house playing gently in the background.



kyle ☻&nbsp;


