i’m gradually getting more comfortable sharing my writing at various events. it’s great to have a prompt and deadline to push me to cohesively write about something, and i find that writing clarifies my own understanding of how i feel about / what motivates a gathering. this past monday was the new moon, and so i wanted to share this essay that i quickly put together for the past full moon, the lightning moon.

moon parties are at this point a four year old tradition, but one that this summer has taken a slightly more contemplative and spiritual tone. i’m always trying to strike a balance between being accessibly fun and meeting a spiritual need. for different people this means different things, but for me this means not leaning too deeply into the traditionally ritualistic and astrological, while still coaxing folks into a comfortable permissioned space of emotionally relating. it’s always an experiment, but one that lately has been particularly invigorating for me. next full moon will mark four years since the first party, truly a silly theme borne out of pandemic boredom. it’s so wonderful to look back and see how something can transform, while retaining the connection to the special time that raya, leila, ben, lowell, and I shared back in september 2020. if you’re in new york, come join me for the harvest moon on september 17; it’ll be a sweet one ☻ 

---

we’re in the time of the full moon, the lightning moon. it’s so called because of the thunderstorms common in late summer, the billowing cumulonimbus that characterize a coming storm. it’s an anglo-saxon name, one that harkens back to a pagan time in the british isles. pre-colonization, or at least as we know it. the full moon has always had a strong influence on cultures around the world. even poking around the history of the largest empire to exist reveals humanity’s acknowledgement and honoring of forces more powerful than us.

so, lightning. so, the moon. thunderstorms continue to impair our attempts to make order of the world, flooding streets and grounding or delaying flights, as i felt firsthand while waiting in the san francisco airport this past sunday night. this is one element of our world that i want to honor with this time we share together — the mystical power and awe of nature. i’m remembering my childhood in the prarie of texas, where i would watch from the back-seat of my mom’s minivan as monstrous clouds squatted on the horizon, promising sudden downpours, evenings spent laying on the driveway absorbing the heat from the day while the rain cools my face, and the ever-present threat of a tornado. there’s a nostalgia, here, one that i carry with me into this new august, this new ecosystem, these new relationships that nourish me.

i’m thinking about awe, in particular, after a trip through sunny california, where you get the feeling that there has never been a thunderstorm, that all days have been and will be full of sunshine and kumquats. but that’s just the thing — lightning strikes when you least expect it. and so i want to frame our ritual with a story of a fungus, and a forest, and lightning.

honey mushrooms have an innocuous name. seeing their sweet golden coloring along the bark of a tree, you wouldn’t assume them to be one of the largest and most destructive organisms on the planet. but under the blue mountains in oregon you would find the largest honey mushroom — the largest mushroom — actually the largest organism — in the world. armillaria ostoyae is its taxonomic name, and this particular one extends over four square miles, weighing up to 30,000 tons, and is nearly invisible to the human eye — a testament to the powerful ability of fungi to spread and survive through their underground mycelial networks.

Armillaria Ostoyae is most commonly known as a parasite — it feeds off a host tree for decades even after it topples it. it’s a threat to healthy forests across north america, and reaches such large size in part due to human fire suppression tactics. controlled burns, such as those practiced by the cayuse, umatilla, and walla walla Indigenous peoples native to this part of oregon, would have reduced the amount of healthy hosts for the honey mushroom to target. it would never have reached such a size.

one storm, one lightning strike, threatens both the forest and the fungus alike. because of the honey mushroom’s prolific expansion, the forest is littered with dead, dry trees, susceptible to fire. susceptible to lightning. a forest fire here would be destructive to the forest, but it would also most likely cauterize the soil, killing the Armillaria that originally killed the forest.

in this case, lightning is a catalyst, a killer at large in the late summer thunderstorms. but it’s also an illuminator, not just lighting up the night sky, but also shedding light on how single-minded ecosystem management practices set us up for greater destruction, and left us with the ruined landscapes we know well today. 20th century flourishing of the lumber industry in oregon begets the flourishing of the world’s largest organism, the monstrous honey mushroom. but it also begets the dismantling of ancestral practices of relating to our planet, and the staggered entry into the 21st century that we are each experiencing.

what should we do, when lightning threatens to reveal our past follies? do we let it burn, with the promise of a clean slate, and wash our hands of our past mistakes? what do we do with the simplified, orderly parts of our lives that are secretly one lightning strike away from destruction? i’m speaking in metaphor, but this is very real, with specific stakes for people and for planet. this full moon, i’m carrying with me an intention to contaminate, and to be contaminated. i’m purging myself of purity, letting wildness run free. because what’s more wild than a lightning strike, racing across the clouds in a flash of light, bringing with it destruction, and possibility, and who knows what else?